Variable editor (#24)
Crunch-io/crplyr: vignettes/excel-editor.Rmd

---
title: "Editing a Dataset from the Excel Editor"
output: rmarkdown::html_vignette
vignette: >
  %\VignetteIndexEntry{Editing a Dataset from the Excel Editor}
  %\VignetteEngine{knitr::rmarkdown}
  %\VignetteEncoding{UTF-8}
---

```{r, include = FALSE}
knitr::opts_chunk$set(
  collapse = TRUE,
  comment = "#>"
)
```

```{r setup}
library(crplyr)
```

# What is it?
- Elevator pitch: (DP tool, allows preparing a dataset's structure in a familiar way: MS Excel)
- (what is crunch automation?)
- Brief note on terminology: Mostl uses Crunch Automation terminology, which conflicts with rcrunch (title, label)

>   (I should probably change Alias to Name, shouldn't I?)

Reviewer: No we're keeping Title and Alias. We could touch up the rcrunch “variable by any other name” bit to refer to Title but we decided it would be too disruptive to try to pretend we got that right lo forever ago.

Author: Gotcha, mostly asked because having `RENAME` mean change alias is a little confusing.

# What changes can I make to a dataset?

> - Replace variable metadata (alias, title, description, notes)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Correct variable naming mistakes (change aliases)
- Change how variables are displayed (title, description, notes)
```

> - Change category metadata (combine categories, change names, missing-ness, values and dates, change order)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Change category metadata (combine categories, change names, missing-ness, numeric values or dates, order)
```

> - Combine variables into categorical arrays or multiple response variables

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Combine related variables into categorical arrays or multiple response variables
```

- Organize variables into folders and set their order

# How does it work?
## Outline
- Generate excel via command: `create_excel_dictionary()`
- Make changes in excel (described below). Don't edit light grey text.
- Either submit CA script directly or save script to file `apply_excel_dictionary()`

## Making changes to excel

(I think this part really needs pictures to be useful, but here's my attempt at the words)

- **Replace variable metadata (Alias, Title, Description, Notes):** Modify columns E (Alias), G 
  (Title), I (Description) and J (Notes) directly. Existing array variables are indicated by 
  multiple rows with the same Alias, and they must have exactly one unique Title, Description

>   and Notes (you can either fill in the same value for each row or leave all except one blank).

Reviewer: I separated alias from 'metadata' above, would suggest doing the same here.

    are combined, they are put in the order of the first occurrence of the category.
- **Combine variables into array variables:** Arrays are created by having multiple variables 
  of the same type with the same alias. You can do this by either setting column E (Alias) 
  on the original row to be the same for multiple variables (in which case the original variables
  will be automatically moved to the Hidden folder) or by copying the rows of the subvariables
  to new rows and changing the alias on these new rows (which allows preserving the original 
  variables outside the hidden folder). Because the original variables are always preserved
  (at least in the hidden folder) the new array variable must have a different alias than all 
  of the subvariables. In addition to changing the Alias, each subvariable
  must have a unique Subvariable Label (column H) and there can be at most one 
  Title/Description/Notes for the new array, so the values in G, I, and J may need to be updated
  so that there's only a single unique value. Note that it is not required to move the subvariables
  to be next to each other, but it may make the spreadsheet more legible if you do (Be careful, 

>   footnote about how to move entire rows?).

Reviewer: can you sketch what that footnote would say?

Author: Definitely needs pictures or GIF, but:

When changing the order of variables and categories, it is important to keep the whole row together and in the case of variables all rows related to the variable together, including subvariables and categories. In Excel, the easiest way to move rows is to click and drag over the numbered columns on the far left of the spreadsheet to select the relevant rows, right click and select "Cut". Then click on the number of the cell at the top of the area where you want to insert the cut cells, right click and select "Insert cut cells".

- **Organize variables into folders and set their order:** Edit Column B (Folder) to indicate 

>   the Folder that the variable is in. Subfolders are indicated by putting "|" between folder names 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  the Folder that the variable is in. Paths with subfolders are separated by "|" between folder names, and "|" is therefore not allowed in folder names.
```

  (eg "Demographics|Core" would create a "Core" folder inside of the "Demographics" one.
  If the folder starts with "Hidden" or "Secure", then it will be moved to the corresponding 

>   special folder. "|" or blank indicate the root folder. The order within the folders is decided
>   by the order of the variables in the excel spreadsheet (and in the case of array variables their

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  special folder. "|" or blank indicate the root folder. The order within the folders will follow
  the order of the variables in the excel spreadsheet (and in the case of array variables their
```
